Interview Question: "How Would You Describe Yourself?"
Why do interviewers ask this question?
When an interviewer asks you to talk about yourself, they're looking for information about how your qualities and characteristics align with the skills they believe are required to succeed in the role. They want to know if your qualities will benefit their company and if your values fit into their company culture. The question presents a great opportunity to highlight the skills and characteristics that make you a good fit for the job. It's similar to the question, "Tell us something about yourself" but requires you to be more vocal about what you think to be your most important trait.

This question is also an opportunity to discuss some of the other activities you participate in outside of work. When discussing such activities, ensure to keep them work-appropriate and maintain a high level of professionalism. This is a great opportunity to discuss your personal interests and hobbies.

Variations of "How would you describe yourself?"
Interviewers may ask "How would you describe yourself" in various ways, including:  

What would it be if you only had one word to describe yourself?
What are three words you'd use to describe yourself?"
How do other people describe you?
In your opinion, what are your most important traits?
What words come to mind when you think about yourself?
What adjectives would you use to describe yourself?
How would you describe your personality?
Tell me about yourself.
Describe yourself in one sentence

1. "I am passionate about my work."
Every employer seeks to hire people who enjoy their work, but the word "passion" evokes feelings of dedication and loyalty. When people are passionate about their work, they're naturally committed to quality and positive outcomes.

Example: "I am passionate about my work. Because I love what I do, I have a steady source of motivation that drives me to do my best. In my last job, this passion led me to challenge myself daily and learn new skills that helped me to do better work. For example, I taught myself how to use Photoshop to improve the quality of our photos and graphics. I soon became the go-to person for any design needs."

2. "I am ambitious and driven."
Ambition and drive are two qualities that are essential to success and growth in many jobs. When an employer hires an ambitious candidate, they can rest assured this new hire will consistently seek ways to improve themselves and keep their eyes firmly set on their next goal.

Example: "I am ambitious and driven. I thrive on challenges and constantly set goals for myself, so I have something to strive toward. I'm not comfortable with settling, and I'm always looking for an opportunity to do better and achieve greatness. They promoted me three times in less than two years in my previous role."

3. "I am highly organized."
An organized candidate is a detail-oriented person an employer can trust to meet deadlines. This quality is especially important in administrative positions, project management and other roles that require adherence to process and quality.

Example: "I am highly organized. I always take notes and use a series of tools to help myself stay on top of deadlines. I like to keep a clean workspace and create a logical filing method so I can always find what I need. I find this increases efficiency and helps the rest of the team stay on track, too. In my last role, I created a new filing process that increased departmental efficiency by 25%."

4. "I'm a people person."
Some people are naturally outgoing and conversational and can quickly find ways to feel at home in groups of strangers. This attribute is especially helpful for people in customer service and sales positions. If you aren't naturally outgoing, you can still succeed in sales positions by following training protocols and practicing effective sales techniques.

Example: "I'm a people person. I love meeting new people and learning about their lives and their backgrounds. I can almost always find common ground with strangers, and I like making people feel comfortable in my presence. This skill is especially helpful when kicking off projects with new clients. In my previous job, my clients' customer satisfaction scores were 15% over the company average."

5. "I'm a natural leader."
While you can teach people management skills, some naturally take on the role of a leader in group settings. Employers often seek natural leaders for leadership and non-leadership positions because they set a good example and boost team morale.

Example: "I'm a natural leader. I've received a promotion to a leadership role in almost every job because I like to help people. I find coworkers usually come to me with questions or concerns even when I'm not in a leadership role because if I don't know the answer, I'll at least point them in the right direction. In my last two roles, I received a promotion to a leadership position after less than a year with each company."